[charts] Funnel charts (#14804)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/charts/funnel/funnel.md

---
title: React Funnel chart
productId: x-charts
components: FunnelChart, FunnelPlot
---

# Charts - Funnel [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

<p class="description">Funnel charts allow to express quantity evolution along a process, such as audience engagement, population education levels or yields of multiple processes.</p>

## Basics

> The funnel accepts a series which must have a data property containing an array of objects. Those objects should contain a property `value`. They can also have other optional properties, like `label` and `id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Funnel charts series should contain a data property containing an array of objects.
Each object corresponds to a section of the funnel.
It must contain a property `value` and can have other optional properties, like `label` and `id`.
```

{{"demo": "BasicFunnel.js"}}

### Display legends

> The funnel chart displays a legend by default. The only requirement is to provide a `label` value in the data objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The funnel chart displays a legend by default.
The only requirement is to provide a `label` value in the data objects.
```

To disable the legend, set the `hideLegend` property to `true`.

{{"demo": "FunnelLegend.js"}}

## Labels

> The funnel chart displays labels by default. It shows the `value` of the data item in each section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The funnel chart displays labels by default.
It shows the `value` of the data item in each section.
```

To format the labels, a `valueFormatter` function can be provided.

> {{"demo": "FunnelLabels.js"}}

Reviewer: INstead of showing the dataIndex of the item, it might be more interesting to adapt the formatting according to the difference between tooltip and items

Author: Series value formatter doesn't have the tooltip/axis context.

### Positioning labels

> The labels can be positioned relative to the section they represent. The `sectionLabel` property accepts an object with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The labels can be positioned relative to the section they represent.
The `sectionLabel` property accepts an object with the following properties:
```

- `position.vertical`: The vertical position of the label. It can be `top`, `center` or `bottom`.
- `position.horizontal`: The horizontal position of the label. It can be `start`, `middle` or `end`.
- `margin`: The margin between the label and the section.

> - `dominantBaseline`: The vertical alignment of the text. It can be `auto`, `baseline`, `text-before-edge`, `text-after-edge`, `central`, `hanging` or `middle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dominantBaseline`: The vertical alignment of the text. It can be `auto`, `baseline`, `text-before-edge`, `text-after-edge`, `central`, `hanging`, or `middle`.
```

- `textAnchor`: The horizontal alignment of the text. It can be `start`, `middle` or `end`.

The `sectionLabel` property can be set to `false` to hide the labels.
It also accepts a function that receives the data object and should return the label configuration.

{{"demo": "FunnelLabelPositioningNoSnap.js"}}

## Curve interpolation

The interpolation between data points can be customized by the `curve` property.
This property expects one of the following string values, corresponding to the interpolation method: `'linear'`, `'bumpX'`, `'bumpY'` and `'step'`.

> This series property adds the option to control the interpolation of a series.
> Different series could even have different interpolations.
> 

Reviewer: It's good to know for me, but I assume it adds more confusion for the reader. Only a few of them will have multiple series, and the number of them that will look for different curve interpolation might be even smaller.

```suggestion
```

{{"demo": "FunnelCurvesNoSnap.js"}}

## Colors

The funnel colors can be customized in two ways.

1. You can provide a [color palette](/x/react-charts/styling/#color-palette). Each section of the funnel will be colored according to this palette.

> 2. You can provide a `color` property in `data` objects which overrides the palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can provide a `color` property in `data` objects, which overrides the palette.
```

> ```jsx
> <FunnelChart
>   colors={['red', 'blue', 'green']} // Use palette
>   series={[
>     {
>       data: [
>         { value: 10, color: 'orange' }, // Use color property
>         // ...
>       ],
>     },
>   ]}
> />
> ```

Reviewer: Could the code snipet and the demo be merged in a single one? Or it's the one that can not be small enough to have a preview?

```suggestion
The following code snippet defines colors by a red, blue, green cycle.
But the second appears orange because it's object override the `color` propoerty.

```jsx
<FunnelChart
  colors={['red', 'blue', 'green']}
  series={[{
    data: [
        { value: 20 }, // Get color from the palette (red)
        { value: 10, color: 'orange' }, // Override color (bleu replaced by orange)
        { value: 5 }, // Get color from the palette (green)
        // ...
      ],
    }]}
/>
```
```

{{"demo": "FunnelColor.js"}}

> ## Stacking sections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multiple funnels
```

> By default, multiple series are stacked on top of each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, multiple series are displayed on top of each other.
```

Simply provide multiple series to the funnel chart and make sure that they have different colors or styles to differentiate them.

> The order of the series in the array will determine the stacking order. The first series will be at the bottom and the last will be at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of the series determines the display order.
The first series is at the bottom and the last is at the top.
```

{{"demo": "FunnelStacked.js"}}

## Highlight

The hovered element can be highlighted by setting `highlightScope.highlight` property to one of the possible values.

To fade elements which are not hovered, set the `highlightScope.fade` property.

{{"demo": "HighlightFunnel.js"}}

## Scaled sections

By default, the sections have the same size because they use the `band` scale type.
A linear scale, is also available, and will scale the the sections based on their value.
To do so, set the `scaleType` property to `linear`.

{{"demo": "FunnelLinearScale.js"}}

## Display axis

The funnel chart does not display an axis by default.
To display an axis, pass the `ChartsXAxis` and `ChartsYAxis` components as a child of the `FunnelChart` component.

> {{"demo": "FunnelAxis.js"}}

Reviewer: You could customize a bit the axes to remove the main line for example
